you know when a youngster first display
is an interest in sports his parents
will often try and provide some guidance
directing him toward baseball or
football maybe basketball but who would
ever suspect that some of these budding
young athletes would wind up as
professional wrestlers I found out less
than this fight look at the elastic
affair professional wrestler I never
went back and I don't regret it as of
this day Ernie Ladd the towering all-pro
defensive tackle the San Diego Chargers
Houston Oilers and Kansas City Chiefs
retires after eight seasons in the
American Football League to become a
giant in professional wrestling
linebacker Wahoo McDaniel number 54 for
the Jets who also played with the Oilers
Broncos and dolphins turns in his
football gear after nine AFL seasons for
a pair of Indian boots
and Paul Orndorff mr. wonderful joined
the wrestling ranks after a career at
the University of Tampa where the
running back number 40 played with
pretty Salomon and John Matusik I was
235 pounds and run a for 740 and you
know I could do it just as good as
anybody else but I really I really chose
us over that it was always in the back
of my mind I always wanted to wrestle
because I like that one-on-one contact
Paul on though it was a good run and uh
it talked about Rahul Medina it wasn't
great football player in my opinion they
got other wrestlers you know and other
sports like the wait list for the great
Ken Patera you know he was an Olympic
lifter then you have Steve we and who I
thought was a great football player in
college at Oklahoma and also a great
wrestler four times all-american and at
Oklahoma then he's the freshman arrest
the right to bake is really great so
these are some in there that I feel to
throw that were great athletes in
professional wrestling but the big man
will always be the king his sixth night
I will with Rehan pounding wear size 17
shoe that's not a foot that's big enough
to go around
horse comes out a little bit he's an
Intimidator Ernie Ernie Ladd that I've
watched on television there's an Ernie
Ladd that completely dominated football
in the 60s was an all-pro defensive
lineman he came in the world of
wrestling I watched him come on TV he
talks slow he intimidated the crowd and
that guy has some charisma you've got it
right my friend Ernie Ladd has charisma
that talked the way he wanna walk the
way he wanna and do the things that he
desire to do and if they have number 74
Merlin Olsen did what he wanted to do on
the football field for 15 years the
all-pro Rams defensive tackle along with
his brother was recruited by wrestling
promoters with contract in hand and pens
ready they had names all picked out I
mean they'd figure this my brother Phil
who's about the same size I am as
blond-haired and blue-eyed he was going
to be the blonde grizzly and I was gonna
be the Kodiak kid and I think we were
gonna be good guys but they were they
were making a lot of promises they were
they were saying you you come and go to
work and within two years we'll have you
on the top of the heap with the world
tag team championship now I think they
might have lied a little bit about that
but a stress you just well they talk big
money didn't they they did in fact when
they initially contacted me they were
talking about a guarantee of two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars for like a
six-month tour but I simply didn't have
an interest in being away from my family
that long and that was the first giant
negative that hit me having taken his
wrestling show on the road for some two
decades in playing professional football
for nearly one the King would have made
some different moves that
could do it all over again a lesson you
know that that might seem harsh but it
is the truth I really when I rest but if
I had to make a decision between the two
sports I really love rescue see I was
close to the people I could help connect
and control a crowd with my ability I've
always thought there was a personal
challenge to be able to work a crowd of
actually Nepal my aunt was murdered
get them as nullus I wanted to get them
you know and this to me is always a
great pleasure
so that's our look at the phenomenon of
pro wrestling now some of you may be
wondering why we haven't posed the
age-old question is wrestling fixed is
the outcome of matches actually known
long before the grapplers enter the ring
is that real blood you see spilled or
just some artfully applied ketchup well
if you'd actually like to know the
answer to these questions
why don't you go ahead and ask for bud
Collins Dave Rowe and Greg Lewis I'm Bob
Costas so long everybody